---
layout: post_teaching
title: Lecture 19
category: biostat203bwinter2020
---

## Today

- Neural network (cont'd). 

- Course evaluation. <http://my.ucla.edu>

## Checklist on your resume/cv

> A data scientist is someone who is better at statistics than any software engineer and better at software engineering than any statistician.  

- [ ] Git/GitHub (give your GitHub handle)  
- [ ] Tidyverse   
- [ ] Data visualization (ggplot2, shiny)  
- [ ] SQL databases  
- [ ] Rcpp, parallel computing  
- [ ] HPC (if you use Hoffman2) 
- [ ] Cloud computing (GCP, AWS?, Azure?)  
- [ ] Deep learing with Keras+TensorFlow+GPU (PyTorch and Caffe are friendlier for research)  
- [ ] Frontend development (shiny, smart phone app)  

* Make your GitHub repo `biostat-m280-2020-winter` public (after Mar 21) and show your work to back your resume. Feel free to modify the reports even after this course.  

* **Use** these tools in your daily work: use Git/GitHub for all your homework and research projects, write weekly research report using RMarkdown, give presentation using ggplot2 and Shiny, write blog/tutorial, ...


## What's not covered

- Machine/statistical learning methods. Familiar with methods in [_Elements of Statistical Learning_](https://web.stanford.edu/~hastie/ElemStatLearn/) and software, e.g., _scikit-learn_. Biostat 285 (Advanced Topics: Recent Developments) in 2020 spring quarter.  

  For non-statistician/biostatistician, I recommend [An Introduction to Statistical Learning: With Applications in R](https://ucla.on.worldcat.org/external-search?queryString=An%20Introduction%20to%20Statistical%20Learning#/oclc/852254203).  

- Algorithms. Spring quarter's Biostat 257 will cover numerical linear algebra and numerical optimization algorithms. 

- Public health applications.

- Be open to languages. **Python** is a more generic programming language and widely adopted in data science. **JavaScript** is dominant in web applications. **Scala** is popular for implementing distributed programs. **Julia** is attractive for high performance scientific computing.



